Okay. Are you ready, Kabu?
Deca‐dence... Activate!
[MINATO] What's wrong? Why
isn't anyone listening to me?
[OPERATOR C] Commander!
You're here in person?
It's not safe, sir!
[MINATO]
Hmm...
Hang on, what's this?
Did someone log
in as Deca‐dence?
It says the
connection's complete!
Is that possible?
But it doesn't wanna activate.
What's our plan of action?
We can do something,
but it has to be now!
Yes, sir!
So what's the deal here?
Ah, crap. Deca‐dence
is just sittin' there!
[NATSUME]
But why?
I'm not sure, but I do know
Kaburagi's connected to it.
He's gonna have to figure out
for himself how to control it.
Connected?
Where exactly is he right now?
Right in front of us.
Uh?!
[JILL] Kaburagi connected
his core to Deca‐dence.
That metal monstrosity is,
for all intents and
purposes, your boss.
[shrieks]
It's not Deca‐dence now.
It's Kabu‐dence.
Awesome name!
Nice one, Jill!
Eh?!
Does that mean...
Go ahead.
There's still something
I gotta take care of.
[NATSUME] I swear, that
jerkwad does this every time.
Huh?
He goes off and does his own
thing without saying a word.
[BUG J] But how's he
gonna fight that Gadoll?
There's chunks
of him everywhere!
I know. We'll make a weapon!
Huh?
Like a Kabu‐dence Cannon!
We can build a new arm just
like the one he did for me!
It can be his weapon!
[JILL] It's nice that
you're trying to think,
but the scale here
is a little different.
Well, sure, but it's
still a metal arm.
If they were
smart like the boss,
they'd make all the
parts interchangeable.
Look, you're missing the point!
You might have tripped
over an idea.
[BUG G]
What's this now?
‐‐[BUG L] What's she doing?
‐‐[BUG H] Do you know?
[RANDOM BUG C]
Take a guess.
[JILL] So we take the
old pieces lying around.
I could figure out
a usable build,
but how do we assemble it?
Oh right,
we turn off the gravity!
It could work.
What could?
That goofy idea you
just pulled out of your ass.
We might be able
to make it happen.
But it'll only
last for one shot.
Well, that'll be enough
for the boss!
[RANDOM BUG D]
Yeah, we're doin' this!
[RANDOM BUG E]
Wait. What're we doin'?
[RANDOM BUG F]
This, dummy!
Status report.
[OPERATOR C] The reboot
has completed successfully.
[OPERATOR A]
I can't find the issue!
[OPERATOR B]
Low‐level noise.
The system might still be
interfering through hooks
left in the OS.
[MINATO]
Naturally.
[OPERATOR B]
What now?
At this point,
it's out of our hands.
All we can do is trust in him.
[beeping]
Huh?
[JILL]
I have an urgent message
for one Commander
Minato, Retired.
[MINATO]
Huh?
[pants]
Was that the last of 'em?
Seems that way.
How utterly anticlimactic.
[KATOU]
Don't lie.
[MINATO] Warriors.
This will be your final mission.
[KATOU]
Final?
[ESSAM]
I'm listening.
[MINATO]
Bring up your maps.
I've marked the locations
of several discarded
Deca‐dence parts.
You're to find them
and fill them with oxyone.
These parts will form a
new weapon for Deca‐dence.
That'll give me a single shot,
and I swear it will strike true.
I ask this of you, warriors.
For the very future
of Deca‐dence.
That sounded
like genuine concern.
Yeah, that's new.
[RANDOM GEAR AA]
This kicks ass!
[RANDOM GEAR A]
Let's do it!
Hold on. What are you doing?
Huh?
Where are they goin'
all of a sudden?
[KURENAI]
What got into the Gears?
[DONATELLO]
Hey, lady!
Huh?
Are you guys gonna
go back 'em up or what?
Back 'em up? How?
On the mission!
[RANDOM CYBORG A]
Did everyone hear?
They're about to shut down
Deca‐dence for good!
[CYBORG A]
They opened the final mission!
Oh crap, I'm gonna miss it!
‐‐I'm logging in!
‐‐Me too!
[RANDOM CYBORG B]
Let's go!
[SULLY]
Whoa!
Holy craparoni! That's a
crappin' crapton of logins!
Cut the crap!
We just said to log out!
Why are these schmucks
doing the exact opposite?
[SULLY]
Crap, that's cool!
Nice! Exactly where
I thought it would be.
Turn your mission
sideways and cram it.
I ain't a scrap digger!
I'm a hunter, baby!
And I got one bigass
trophy in my sights!
Gotta find the next one.
Whoa.
What's going on?
How is it happening this fast?
I think we're getting
a sudden rush of players
logging into inactive accounts!
That's great?
All for one!
Last chance we get!
Join the party!
Sounds like it's
gonna work out, then.
Even if we build the weapon,
Kabu‐dence has
to work out how to use it,
so if he can't activate,
this whole area goes squish.
[NATSUME]
What do you mean "goes squish?"
[JILL]
Imagine us, and your boss,
and the Gadoll and
everything else around here
being stuffed into
literally no space.
[NATSUME]
Hmm...
Okay then.
So why can't he activate?
Hey, don't ask me.
No one's ever even attempted
to log into Deca‐dence
this way before.
[NATSUME]
Hang on, Boss.
Sorry about that!
I gotta go, guys!
[RANDOM BUG G]
What the hell?
[RANDOM BUG H]
Is she insane?
[laughs]
I think we might
have found someone
even buggier than Kaburagi!
‐‐Whoa.
‐‐It's moving again.
Oh dear. Nap time is over.
[KABURAGI]
Where am I?
[MUNIN] It's outside
the Deca‐dence dome.
One of the many cities
humans built
and subsequently destroyed.
In their wake,
they left a dead zone where
no organic life can survive.
This is where I came into being.
[KABURAGI]
What?
[MUNIN]
To avoid repeating
humanity's many catastrophic
errors, a new entity was needed.
[MUNIN] A universal,
independent governing system.
You were the system all along?
[MUNIN] The Hugin and
Munin forms are merely agents
used to enact
the system's orders.
The system itself
is not a physical object.
[KABURAGI]
What do you want?
[MUNIN]
Only for you to relent
in this fruitless
expenditure of energy.
Deca‐dence cannot
defeat Gadoll Omega,
as you've surely
determined for yourself.
If I'm dead either way,
then why give up?
Now quit wasting time
and give me admin!
You won't surrender to a bug?
[MUNIN] In fact, the presence of
bugs is entirely accounted for
in the system's design.
[KABURAGI]
Since when?
[MUNIN] The interplay
between the bugs that emerge
and the entities designated
to eliminate them is,
in itself, a core aspect
of the system's functionality.
Through thorough analysis
of these interactions.
the system devises
robust countermeasures.
In the aftermath of
a cataclysmic event,
the system will incorporate
all new countermeasures
into an upgrade.
This is the latest
of many such cycles.
The series of occurrences
you've set in motion,
and your decision to do so,
are simply steps
in this grand process.
And the cataclysm that
will trigger the next upgrade
is now imminent.
Indeed, in trying
to subvert the system,
your actions will
ultimately make it stronger.
You and the resources
you would employ remain
within the system's control.
The grand process will not slow.
Is that true?
'Cause I think you're scared.
[MUNIN]
Hm?
Look here.
I chose to push myself
beyond my limits,
and I could give a damn
what the system wants!
Hey, Boss!
You can hear me, can't you?
Don't you dare give up now!
We all need you!
[KABURAGI
'Cause the human who saved me.
Natsume has lived
her whole life like that.
And your system
has never saved anyone.
You say you're in control,
but all you do is react when
you feel your grip coming loose!
No matter what you say.
Wake up, now!
[KABURAGI]
I'm gonna do this!
So shut up and watch me!
[MUNIN] In every outcome,
you end up dead.
Whatever world
you think you're making,
you will not be part of it.
Truly a pity.
[gasps]
[OPERATOR B] All clear! The
interference is gone, Commander.
We have control!
He's awake!
Good to see you again, Boss!
[MINATO]
So nice of you to join us, Kabu.
[KABURAGI]
Hey. Deca‐dence... Activate!
Deca‐dence... Activate!
[MINATO] Okay. Do you
have what you need, Kabu?
[KABURAGI] Somewhere. I'll need
a minute to find it though.
This is a lot of info.
Focus on the markings
on your map.
I can see you marked
the parts sitting in the desert.
I'm starting to get the idea.
[MINATO] Great. We're gonna
need you to grab 'em.
[KABURAGI]
Understood.
First things first,
let's pop that zone!
Yes, sir! Launch harpoons now!
[OPERATOR A]
Gadoll Omega's zone is active!
Ah! Whoa. Hold on!
[KABURAGI]
Deca‐dence. Grab those parts!
[OPERATOR C]
The light‐guiding pseudo fibers.
They're moving
like living things.
[NATSUME screams]
What is that?
[JILL] Can all you idiots
please sit still for one second?
[RANDOM GEAR CC]
This is so sick!
[RANDOM GEAR D]
Go!
Whoa. The parts
just keep coming.
Awesome.
It's true. We can
make this work!
So this is Deca‐dence.
Omega's moving!
It's preparing
to fire that beam!
This soon? Kabu!
[KABURAGI] Power's tapped out;
I can't work any faster!
Then we're...
[OPERATOR A]
It can't end like this!
Damn. We're so close!
‐‐Donatello?
‐‐What?
I'm comin' to getchya.
Kabu! Win the fight or
I'm gonna kick your ass!
Isn't that Dotkin?
What's he even trying to do?
Crap, it's the boss!
That's what happens
when your logic circuits
are corroded by turd residue!
[RANDOM GEAR F]
Run!
[OPERATOR A]
It's gone dormant!
[OPERATOR C] Parts are
almost fully connected.
We're at 90 percent!
Awesome.
Begin firing preparations!
[RANDOM BUG N]
Boss.
[RANDOM BUG O]
You were the coolest!
[RANDOM BUG P]
One of the best there ever was!
[BUG M]
Guys. We gotta raise
a glass of Sark's
brew for the boss!
[DONATELLO] What?
What's everyone lookin' at?
Hey.
[RANDOM BUG Q]
You killed it, stupid.
[RANDOM BUG BB]
Yawn.
Hey! I just saved
all of your lives;
show some damn respect!
[OPERATOR C]
All parts have been secured!
Good work!
Now we just need
to pull it in close, Kabu!
[KABURAGI] Right.
Deca‐dence Cannon, ignite!
[OPERATOR A]
Omega is responding again!
Kabu, are you ready?
[KABURAGI]
Yeah.
Oh! There's something there.
No way!
What's that?
[OPERATOR C]
It's a spare part!
[KABURAGI]
We don't need it!
Get out of there now, Natsume!
One more push!
Keep going! You're almost there!
[KURENAI] Natsume!
Keep some in the tank, kid!
Kurenai!
[KURENAI] What are you thinking,
trying to move this by yourself?
You can let us
do all the heavy lifting!
I said no runnin' off
to play hero!
Damn right she did!
Thanks, guys.
You really don't know
when to quit.
We're in Deca‐dence?
But where?
Hey, Boss?
You guys just stay put!
[OPERATOR C]
Deca‐dence. Ready to fire!
[MINATO] We get one shot, Kabu!
All or nothing!
[KABURAGI]
I know.
[OPERATOR B] Spatial compression
will commence in ninety seconds!
Now get wrecked!
There's no way.
Increase power now!
[OPERATOR C] Unable to execute.
Commander, the tank is dry!
Not now!
[RANDOM CYBORG G]
Oh crap!
[RANDOM CYBORG C]
This is so hype!
[RANDOM CYBORG D]
You got this, guys!
Don't let those jerks
shut down our Deca‐dence!
Give it to 'em!
[RANDOM BUG U]
Hey, no fair!
[RANDOM BUG CC]
Go, Kabu‐dence!
[RANDOM BUG DD]
Don't give up!
You can't give up on yourself.
You gotta stay in the fight!
No way. I'm gonna
join The Power.
And I'll do whatever it takes!
I swore an oath to myself.
That I'd push my limits and
smash every wall in my way!
I have to keep on pushing.
I gotta be strong.
I can't just give up and
let everyone die, right?
I have to fight!
And I've already made my choice.
I'm choosing to trust you.
No way. He broke the limiter!
Kabu!
[KABURAGI] Natsume.
You don't have to push so hard.
I told you, didn't I?
When I'm done,
this whole thing is coming down!
We won?
Unreal.
It's over, isn't it?
Yeah?
Looks like it, at least.
Huh?
Yeah!
[OPERATOR C]
We... We did it.
Holy crap, we made it!
Thank goodness!
[signs]
We're still collapsing. Log out.
Crazy bastard really did it.
Kabu‐dence wrecked that thing!
That was friggin' nutso.
[BUG M]
Kabu‐dence, no!
Truly amazing, what a
bug can make possible.
Hey, look at that.
The whole thing's
just falling to pieces.
Hold on, Boss.
Take care, Natsume.
[DONATELLO]
Under here?
[MINATO]
Yeah. This is the place.
[DONATELLO]
All right.
Yeah, that's him.
[NATSUME]
Thank you very much.
Sorry, Boss.
I kinda flipped out
towards the end
and broke the arm
you made for me.
But that's okay,
'cause you made it
so I could change out the parts.
So just, please know...
I will always be grateful.
[MINATO]
Sorry about the wait.
[JILL]
Wow! You actually found it, huh?
Yeah, we managed to dig it out
from under some of the wreckage.
That sounds like
a whole barrel of fun.
Not a big deal.
You're dealing
with the hard part here.
It's what I'd be
doing anyway.
Studying bugs is my thing,
and our interests
happened to coincide.
How's the
Supreme Administrator gig?
[MINATO] I'm learning
all kinds of things.
Mainly all the
different problems
I can't do anything about.
Just gotta keep
updating the new system
and improving it
one step at a time.
How about helping those
two help me help us?
I'd rather shovel shit.
It was worth a try.
By the way,
you've sure got a lot of that
whatever‐you're‐
looking‐at‐there.
What are you looking at?
[JILL]
A big hodgepodge of random data.
Breakdown of Gadoll
fecal composition,
a recipe for oxyone booze,
how to train your new Donatello,
and so on and
so forth, blah, blah.
[MINATO]
What's this?
Huh. Yeah, good question.
Come to think of it,
when I was upgrading Kaburagi,
I also grabbed some data
to make a backup of...
Of his core.
[NARRATOR]
Welcome to Deca‐dence City.
A revolutionary civilization‐
building entertainment facility.
Customize a farming tool
to your specifications
in the farming area.
And help raise a bumper crop
along with our Tanker allies!
Then, head to
the attraction area
in the former core
of the fortress.
Feel the gravity‐defying rush
of a dynamic new sport.
Core Ball!
[laughs]
Not bad, girl!
Yeah, bring it!
[NARRATOR] And the spirit
of Deca‐Dence lives on.
Experience the thrill of combat
in the battle area's
ultimate fighting event!
It's so creamy and sweet,
you can't even taste the Gadoll!
Hey!
There's actual work to do!
[NARRATOR] And now,
you can observe your favorite
former Deca‐dence foes without
danger in the Gadoll area.
And even take one home
to raise for your own!
Oh my gosh. Don't do that!
[laughs]
They like you!
[NARRATOR] And in the open
and airy residential district,
the Tanker spirit shines
through brighter than ever!
In a bustling city where
Tankers and Cyborgs
can live and work side by side!
Beyond the walls,
you and your friends can
make new memories together,
by forging into
the uncharted surface
lands on a field expedition!
[GIRL]
Bye‐bye, miss!
[BOY] That was fun!
We'll be back soon!
Thanks! Later, guys.
See ya next time!
[NATSUME] Ahh, man. That's one
more day in the books, right?
[gasps]